Domain Controllers

A domain controller is a Windows server that has Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) installed and has been promoted to a domain controller in the forest.
Center of the AD, it could control the rest of the domain
Handles authentication and authorization, holds data storage
Replicate updates from other domain controllers in the forest
Allow admin access to manage domain resources

AD DS data store

Contains the NTDS.dit - a database that contains all of the information of an Active Directory domain controller as well as password hashes for domain users
Stored by default in %SystemRoot%\NTDS
accessible only by the domain controller

Forest 

without forest all of the other trees and domains would not be able to interact.
A forest is a collection of one or more domain trees inside of an Active Directory network. It is what categorizes the parts of the network as a whole.

The Forest consists of these parts which we will go into farther detail with later:

Trees - A hierarchy of domains in Active Directory Domain Services
Domains - Used to group and manage objects 
Organizational Units (OUs) - Containers for groups, computers, users, printers and other OUs
Trusts - Allows users to access resources in other domains
Objects - users, groups, printers, computers, shares
Domain Services - DNS Server, LLMNR, IPv6
Domain Schema - Rules for object creation


Users

Domain Admins - This is the big boss: they control the domains and are the only ones with access to the domain controller.

Service Accounts (Can be Domain Admins) - These are for the most part never used except for service maintenance, they are required by Windows for services such as SQL to pair a service with a service account

Local Administrators - These users can make changes to local machines as an administrator and may even be able to control other normal users, but they cannot access the domain controller

Domain Users - These are your everyday users. They can log in on the machines they have the authorization to access and may have local administrator rights to machines depending on the organization.

Groups

Security Groups - These groups are used to specify permissions for a large number of users

Distribution Groups - These groups are used to specify email distribution lists. As an attacker these groups are less beneficial to us but can still be beneficial in enumeration

Default securtity group

Domain Controllers - All domain controllers in the domain
Domain Guests - All domain guests
Domain Users - All domain users
Domain Computers - All workstations and servers joined to the domain
Domain Admins - Designated administrators of the domain
Enterprise Admins - Designated administrators of the enterprise
Schema Admins - Designated administrators of the schema
DNS Admins - DNS Administrators Group
DNS Update Proxy - DNS clients who are permitted to perform dynamic updates on behalf of some other clients (such as DHCP servers).
Allowed RODC Password Replication Group - Members in this group can have their passwords replicated to all read-only domain controllers in the domain
Group Policy Creator Owners - Members in this group can modify group policy for the domain
Denied RODC Password Replication Group - Members in this group cannot have their passwords replicated to any read-only domain controllers in the domain
Protected Users - Members of this group are afforded additional protections against authentication security threats. See http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=298939 for more information.
Cert Publishers - Members of this group are permitted to publish certificates to the directory
Read-Only Domain Controllers - Members of this group are Read-Only Domain Controllers in the domain
Enterprise Read-Only Domain Controllers - Members of this group are Read-Only Domain Controllers in the enterprise
Key Admins - Members of this group can perform administrative actions on key objects within the domain.
Enterprise Key Admins - Members of this group can perform administrative actions on key objects within the forest.
Cloneable Domain Controllers - Members of this group that are domain controllers may be cloned.
RAS and IAS Servers - Servers in this group can access remote access properties of users



Trusts

Trusts are a mechanism in place for users in the network to gain access to other resources in the domain. trusts outline the way that the domains inside of a forest communicate to each other, in some environments trusts can be extended out to external domains and even forests in some cases.

Directional - The direction of the trust flows from a trusting domain to a trusted domain
Transitive - The trust relationship expands beyond just two domains to include other trusted domains

Domain policies

Policies are a very big part of Active Directory, they dictate how the server operates and what rules it will and will not follow. They simply act as a rulebook for Active  Directory that a domain admin can modify and alter as they deem necessary to keep the network running smoothly and securely. Along with the very long list of default domain policies, domain admins can choose to add in their own policies not already on the domain controlle

Domain Services

They are services that the domain controller provides to the rest of the domain or tree
LDAP - Lightweight Directory Access Protocol; provides communication between applications and directory services
Certificate Services - allows the domain controller to create, validate, and revoke public key certificates
DNS, LLMNR, NBT-NS - Domain Name Services for identifying IP hostnames

Domain Authentication

 There are two main types of authentication in place for Active Directory: NTLM and Kerberos. 

Kerberos - The default authentication service for Active Directory uses ticket-granting tickets and service tickets to authenticate users and give users access to other resources across the domain.
NTLM - default Windows authentication protocol uses an encrypted challenge/response protocol


Azure AD 

Azure acts as the middle man between your physical Active Directory and your users' sign on. This allows for a more secure transaction between domains, making a lot of Active Directory attacks ineffective.


Cloud Security

Windows Server AD	 Azure AD

LDAP	                 Rest APIs
NTLM	                 OAuth/SAML
Kerberos	         OpenID
OU Tree	                 Flat Structure
Domains and Forests	 Tenants
Trusts	                 Guests



